Katella Michael
My Scouting Journey
December 9, 2024

My scouting journey begins, when I was trying to find an excuse to get out of another year of piano from my mom. I used the program as a scapegoat to try and make my way out of having to go through an entire year of Struggling to learn this instrument (Still had to do piano) but little did I know I was about to make the best decision I've ever made in my life, here's my scouting story.

It all started a year before I was able to join, we went to an open house at a fire station. And that is where I met a couple explorers that told me and my family about the program, at first, wasn't so sure I wanted to join, but later knew I wasn't going to join, but then the start of the school year was creeping around the corner, my mom made deal with me that if I found A different activity to do. I wouldn't have to do piano that year. I was in my room and struggling to think of things that I would enjoy doing and wouldn't cost an arm and a leg, then it hit me, the Explorers program is a perfect idea! It seemed easy enough at the time, but when I wasn't doing any of the hard work, I was very mistaken, I came running down the hall to tell my mom my idea, she thought it was perfect, so as soon as we found out where the training center was, we rushed down there to get the paperwork we needed to fill out. I distinctly remember my first Day as an explorer It was probably one of the most difficult Tuesdays I've ever experienced in my life, I was so nervous to begin especially because of my size and how out of shape I was, I was positive I was going to get run over that day. The first 15 minutes we did some PT That was supposed to be simple, for me at the time It wasn't, I remember being so relieved, when we were done, my arms and legs felt like noodles from running and push-ups. After that, we were instructed to do quick dress, I had no idea what I was doing, and we had already started so it was a little too late to ask questions, luckily when we went to get paperwork, I was watching them all do quick dress, and I had a slight idea of what was about to happen, it took me 3 minutes and 58 seconds to get in my gear, and I still did it wrong, all eyes were on me. After struggling my way out of quick dress, I looked at my watch and realized I still had 2 1/2 more hours of this! We had gotten to the obstacle course that we were going to train on and been told how to go through it, when it was my turn, I remember being ready to go through and then being handed this huge air pack, at first, I was confused, and then I realized I had to wear this giant thing on my back all the way through this obstacle course! I was exhausted once I had gone through, when my turn was over, one of my advisers had pulled me and a couple other kids aside and had told us to all stand in a line, we were about to practice quick dress again! I was so relieved I didn't have to go through the obstacle course one more time, I probably would have passed out, but I did get a few good tips on how to shave my time down from about four minutes to one minute, 45 seconds when I went home I was so relieved that training was over.

The timing of when I started just happened to be when they started training for a Competition, they had the next year, over the course of the next few months I became the fastest at knots, got my quick dress time down to 36 seconds, and was on the number one team for 5 out of the 8 events,

Pulling into Gatlinburg for the BSA Winterfest competition a flood of so many emotions started rushing in when we arrived there, I was excited, nervous, and really tired all at the same time. We started the next morning off with a scavenger hunt, we got put into teams and set off, it was a very fun activity to start off the day, it helped build friendships and bonds while working very fast. Come the time for the opening ceremony, While we were waiting for it to start, I noticed a group of cadets struggling to drag a dummy across the room, when I saw them it was easy for me to put myself in their shoes because not long ago I was them struggling to drag the dummy across the room, I decided to go over and help  show them how to properly pick up and drag the dummy while saving time, energy, and their backs. While we were chatting about it their adviser noticed and decided to come over to see what was happening, they explained the situation and he thanked me for helping them and how it made a very big difference, in that moment I felt this great wave of happiness wash over me, I can only hope that the feeling that I had when I went to help them is the same feeling they experience when they find someone needing help.

The day of the competition we showed up to the arena it was very loud and busy with all the different County's preparing to compete against one another we got to our station set everything up and began. All the competitions were very hard and tested every skill I had learned during the past 4 1/2 months, but we had all made it through with smiles on our faces bringing home friendships, a couple trophies, and a new record for one of the drills.

Coming home after Winterfest was a breath of fresh air, being back home but missing the rush of adrenaline at the same time, for the next couple of months, were pretty easy, we were doing a bunch of EMS training, getting certifications updated, and learning the basic skills to help someone who needs medical attention. It was towards the end of the school year when we needed to get new officers (captain, lieutenants, and sergeants) a lot of my fellow explorers believed I would be a great 2nd Lieutenant so I decided to run for it just to see what would happen, When it came time to vote I was a little nervous to see what would happen, the silence was so loud when the advisers would come out with that small sheet of paper saying who our next captain and first Lieutenant was going to be. The stress was getting worse with each person who went up, then it was my turn, I go up and say my speech for the position of second Lieutenant, with my knees shaking I was able to muster up the right words and get my speech out, my heart was about to beat out of my chest as everyone was voting, and then the advisers come out with that small sheet of paper, it felt like time was moving in slow motion as they opened the piece of paper and read who was going to be the next second Lieutenant, as they call out my name my heart drops with excitement and a little bit of fear for what the future will hold.

Summer break was finally here, it was nice to have some time off after the Winterfest competition. Then came the Academy, an entire week of morning to evening training, putting out some controlled fires, and a lot of PT. The first day of Academy arrives, that was the longest day of PT, we had an hour of running, pushups, towers, and a lot more, when that was done it was time to get to work, that day we did hydrant hookup, quick dress, climbed a 100 foot ladder, and learned about knots. Over the course of the next few days we were learning things like how properly crawl through windows, how to work with each set of hoses, putting out a car fire, forcible entry, ventilation, and watched a dollhouse fire, and that was all only until lunch, after we ate, we were in the classroom learning about ride along requirements, VEIS and fire dynamics, forcible entry, ventilation, HIPAA, pus, and feces. But the thing that kept me going through all of this was not the idea of wanting to get over my fears and push past my limits but the thought of the amount of PT the scary man with the mustache at the bottom of the ladder would make me do if I didn't. After finally making it to Friday we had one more day to get through before the week was officially over, Saturday, that day was what we were trained for the entire week, with the skills from hydrant hookup, forcible entry, ventilation, ladders, and search and rescue to get through the building and eventually put out the dumpster fire at the end. When it was all said and done, we packed up and left feeling exhausted but accomplished at the same time, building stronger bonds with people who had been there for a while and people who had just joined at the beginning of the week, we all grew together as a team throughout the time we spent with each other training for our future.

Looking back, I realized that if I didn't have that small nudge of trying to find that one thing to get out of another thing, I wouldn't have been where I am today, I look at the accomplishments I've made throughout the year as the second Lieutenant in the Cherokee fire explorer program and I know now that this is by far the best decision I have ever made, and that is my scouting journey,

to be continued.
